A lot of companies are trying to measure
productivity for their teams.
>> Most productivity metrics are a lie. If
the goal is more lines of code, I can
prompt something to write the longest
piece of code ever. It's just too easy
to gain that system.
>> How do I know if my edge team is moving
fast enough if they can move faster if
they're just not performing as well as
they can?
>> Most teams can move faster, but faster
for what? We can ship trash faster every
single day. We need strategy and really
smart decisions to know what to ship.
One of the biggest issues we're going to
probably have with AI is learning how
much to trust code that it generates.
>> We can't just put in a command and get
something back and accept it. We really
need to evaluate it. You know, are we
seeing hallucinations? What's the
reliability? Does it meet the style that
we would typically write?
>> So much of the time is now going to be
spent reviewing code versus writing
code.
>> There's some real opportunity there to
not just rethink workflows, but rethink
how we structure our days and how we
structure our work. Now, we can also
make a 45minute work block useful
because getting into the flow is
actually kind of handed off at least in
part to the machine or the machine can
help us get back into the flow by
reminding us of context and generating
diagrams of the system.
>> What's just like one thing that you
think ange team, a product team can do
this week, next week to get more done.
>> Honestly, I think the best thing you can
do
today, my guest is Nicole Forsrren. With
so much talk about how AI is increasing
developer productivity, more and more
people are asking, "How do we measure
this productivity gain? And are these AI
tools actually helping us or hurting how
our developers work?" Nicole has been at
the forefront of this space longer than
anyone. She created the most used
frameworks for measuring developer
experience called Dora and Space. She
wrote the most important book in the
space called Accelerate and is about to
publish her newest book called
Frictionless, which gives you a guide to
helping your team move faster and do
more in this emerging AI world. Her core
thesis is that AI indeed accelerates
coding. But developers aren't speeding
up as much as you think because they
still have to deal with broken builds
and unreliable tools and processes and a
bunch of new bottlenecks that are
emerging. In our conversation, we chat
about her current, best, and very
specific advice for how to measure
productivity gains from AI, signs that
your team could be moving faster, what
companies get wrong when trying to
measure engineering productivity, how AI
tools are both helping and hurting
engineers, including getting into flow
states, her seven-step process for
setting up a developer experience team
at your company, how to get buyin and
measure the impact of a team like this,
and a ton more. This episode is for
anyone looking to improve the
performance of their engineering teams.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. It
helps tremendously. Also, if you become
an annual subscriber of my newsletter,
you get a year free of 15 incredible
products including lovable, replet,
bolt, nadam, linear, superhuman,
dscript, whisper flow, gamma,
perplexity, warp, granola, magic
patterns, raycast, chapard, and mobin.
Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Nicole Forscreen.
This episode is brought to you by
Mercury. I've been banking with Mercury
for years and honestly, I can't imagine
banking any other way at this point. I
switched from Chase and holy moly, what
a difference. Sending wires, tracking
spend, giving people on my team access
to move money around. So freaking easy.
Where most traditional banking websites
and apps are clunky and hard to use,
Mercury is meticulously designed to be
an intuitive and simple experience. And
Mercury brings all the ways that you use
money into a single product, including
credit cards, invoicing, bill pay,
reimbursements for your teammates, and
capital. Whether you're a funded tech
startup looking for ways to pay
contractors and earn yield on your idle
cash, or an agency that needs to invoice
customers and keep them current, or an
e-commerce brand that needs to stay on
top of cash flow and excess capital,
Mercury can be tailored to help your
business perform at its highest level.
See what over 200,000 entrepreneurs love
about Mercury. Visit mercury.com to
apply online in 10 minutes. Mercury is a
fintech, not a bank. banking services
provided through Mercury's FDICins
insured partner banks. For more details,
check out the show notes. Here's a
puzzle for you. What do OpenAI, Cursor,
Perplexity, Verscell, Platt, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, Work OS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit logs, and other features
required by big customers. Work OS turns
those deal blockers into drop-in APIs
with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're
a seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. Work OS allows you to build like
the best with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to work os.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
Nicole, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you. It's so good to be here.
>> It's so good to have you back. I was
just watching our first episode, which
we did two and a half years ago. I was
watching it and I was both shocked and
not shocked that we barely talked about
AI. The episode was called how to
measure and improve developer
productivity and we got to AI barely
like an hour in and we're just like hm I
wonder what's going to happen with AI
and productivity. Does that just blow
your mind?
>> Yeah, because I mean it was just hitting
the scene. It was the topic of so much
conversation and at the same time so
many things don't change, right? So many
things are still important. So many
things are the same. Um, yeah, it's also
a little wild that it's been two and a
half years. Where's where go? Time is a
social construct.
>> Yeah, it was like most of our
conversation was just like questions
like, well, how might this impact
people? How will we change the way we
build product? And now it basically was
not it was barely a thing back then. Now
it's the only thing that I imagine
people want to talk about when they talk
about engineering productivity. That's
what we're spending a lot of our time
focusing on today. The reason I'm
excited about this conversation, it
feels like there's been so much money
poured into AI tools, increasing
productivity. All the fastest growing
companies in the world are these
engineering AI tools. And now more and
more people are just asking this
question of just like what gains are we
getting out of this? How much is this
actually helping us be more productive?
How do we become more productive? You've
been at the center of this world for
longer than anyone. You've uh invented
so many of the frameworks that people
rely on now. So I'm really excited to
have you back and to talk about this
stuff. I want to talk I want to start
with just like this term Devx which is
uh something that comes up a lot in this
in this whole space. So we're gonna and
we're going to hear this term a bunch in
this conversation. Can you just explain
what is Devx? This term Devx.
>> So Devx is uh developer experience. And
when we think about developer experience
it's we're really talking about what
it's like to build software daytoday for
a developer. Right? So the friction that
they face, the workflows that they have
to go through, um any support that they
have and it's important because when
DevX is poor, everything else just isn't
going to help, right? The best
processes, the best tools, the best
whatever magic you have, right? If if
the DevX is bad, everything kind of
takes.
>> And so within DevX is productivity. And
I think the key insight that you had and
other folks in the space of about it is
not just like productivity, but there's
also engineering happiness and and we're
going to get into a lot of these parts,
but just maybe speak to there's
productivity and there's broader
components to engineers being successful
at a company.
>> Yeah. And I love that point, right?
Because productivity, first of all, it's
hard to define anyway. But if if you're
just looking at like output, you can get
there a lot of different ways, but if
you're getting there in ways that are
high toil or high friction, then at some
point a developer is going to burn out.
Or if it's, you know, super high
cognitive load, if it's hard to even
think about what you're doing because
you're concentrating on like the the
mechanics of, you know, the plumbing of
something, then you don't have the brain
space left to come up with like really
innovative solutions and questions. And
so I love that it's kind of this
self-reinforcing loop in terms of you do
more work, you do better work, and
it it's better for people, it's better
for, you know, the systems, it's better
for our customers. Something I was going
to get to this later, but I want to
actually get to this right now. This
idea of flow state for engineers. So I
was an engineer actually early in my
career. I went to school for computer
science. I was an engineer for 10 years.
The best part of the job is for me was
just this flow state you enter when
you're coding and building and just
things feel like so fun. It feels like
AI is making that harder in a lot of
ways because there's all these agents
you're working with now. There's all
this code that's kind of being written
for you. Talk about just the importance
of flow state to a developer happiness,
developer productivity, and just what
you've seen AI impacting, how you've
seen AI impacting that.
>> A lot of times, well, there are lots of
different ways to talk about DevX,
right? One way to talk about it is kind
of three key things that
have components that are important of
themselves. They also kind of reinforce
each other. So flow state is one of
them, cognitive load is another, and
then feedback loops are another. And so
I think, you know, when you touch on
this, your question about flow state is
a really good one. And I'll I'll admit,
you know, we're just a few years into
this. We're still figuring out what the
best flow state and and like cognitive
uh requirements are for people in this
because to your point, sometimes we're
getting interrupted all the time, right?
you don't just get in the flow and lock
down and write a whole bunch of code and
do like the typing of a whole bunch of
code as much anymore. Instead, you're
kind of creating a prompt, uh, getting
some code back and reviewing the code,
trying to integrate what's happening in
the system. Um, and that can really
interrupt. At the same time though, it
can contribute to flow if and I've I've
seen some senior jars pull together seen
tool chains that are really incredible
where they figured out how to kind of
keep the flow going, right? The fast
feedback loops really really work work
well for them. They can kind of assign
out different pieces uh to agents. It
helps them keep in the flow in terms of
instead of details and line by line
writing, they're in the flow in terms of
what's my goal, what are the pieces that
I need to get there, how quickly can I
get there, so then I can step back and
kind of evaluate everything and then
dive back in and, you know, fix some
pieces.
>> Is there anything more you could say
about this engineer that figured out
this really cool workflow about just
what that looks like?
>> So, I've spoken with a handful of them
and I've kind of watched them work. I
haven't built it myself yet. It's on my
list. Um, so they've been able to set up
this like really incredible workspace
and workflow where like right now a lot
of us, you know, play around with tools
and we'll like put in a prompt and we'll
get a few lines back or maybe we'll put
in a prompt and we'll get like whole
programs back. Well, what they can do is
they can many times I'll see them say uh
to kind of helped help prime it, you
know, this is what I want to build. It
needs to have these basic architectural
components. it needs to have this kind
of a stack. It needs to follow like this
general workflow. Help me think that
through and it'll kind of design it for
it. And then for each piece, it'll
assign an agent to go work on each piece
in parallel. And then it'll say, "Oh,
and up front, you know, these need to be
able to work together. Make sure it's
architected correctly. Make sure we use,
you know, appropriate uh APIs and
conventions." Then at the end uh and
then they can like let it run for a few
minutes and they can think through
something else that's interesting or
they anticipate is going to be hairy and
they come back to something that's
I mean probably a little better than
vibe coded, right? Because like because
they were so systematic about it up
front, they're much closer to something
that looks like production code. So,
what I'm hearing is spending a little
more time up front planning what all
these AIA engineers are doing versus
just like powering through and just
figuring out as you go.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, cool. Let me get to this quite a
core question that I think on is a lot
of people's minds. A lot of companies
are trying to measure productivity for
their teams. Is this improving our
productivity? Is this hurting our
productivity? So, let me just start with
this question. How are people doing this
wrong currently when they try to measure
their productivity gains with AI?
>> I will say most productivity metrics are
a lie. Uh you know it's it's really
tricky because historically now look
lines of code has always been a bad
metric, right? But many folks still use
lines of code as some proxy. Yeah. As
some proxy for
>> uh output or productivity or complexity
or something, right? Well, now for many
of the systems that they would sometimes
like whisper and not super talk about
that uses lines of code, it's just blown
out of the water because what do you
mean by lines of code? Uh, if the goal
is more lines of code, I can prompt
something to write you the longest piece
of code ever and add tons of comments.
And, you know, we know that agents and
and LLMs tend to be very verbose uh, by
definition. And so it's just too easy to
gain that system and then introduce
complexity and technical debt into all
of the work that you're doing. I will
say there are some things that we can
kind of
watch and pay attention to because so
lines of code as a productivity metric
isn't great, right? It's pretty bad. But
now it's kind of more relevant if we can
tease out which code came from people
and which code came from AI because now
we can answer downstream questions. What
is the code survivability rate? What is
the quality of our code?
>> Is our code being fed back into train
systems and for that code that's that's
retraining systems later especially if
we're doing like fine-tuning and local
tuning. How much of that is fishing
generated? Right? what types of loops is
that creating and what types of patterns
or biases might it be in invertly
introducing. So on the one hand like
it's not good as a productivity metric
but it can be useful right and I'll I'll
even say the same for Dora right so I
have done Dora metrics their speed
metrics their stability metrics if
that's all you're looking at it's it's
not going to be sufficient anymore
because AI has now changed the way we
think about feedback loops right they
need to be much faster now what door is
meant for you know kind of assessing the
pipeline overall in terms of speed and
stability it's still that works but we
can't just blindly apply the exist
existing metrics we've used before
because we'll miss super important
phenomenon and and changes in the way
people work.
>> Interesting. So, so you you invented
Dora that was kind of the main framework
people used for a long time to measure
productivity and then there's space
there's uh core 4 there's probably
others. So what I'm hearing here is all
these are kind of out of date now where
AI is contributing large portions of
code. I will say if it is a prescriptive
metric it needs to be used only in the
way it was prescribed. Now Dora 4 there
are four key metrics there's uh two
speed metrics uh deployment frequency
and lead time so code commit to code
deploy there's stability metrics uh mtr
and change fail rate if those are used
to assess the speed of the pipeline and
the general performance of the pipeline
that's great if you're trying to use
those to understand because implied in
that is feedback loops right because you
used to kind of like to get feedback
from customers um
but we can't just use that blindly now
when we're using AI as an example
because we have feedback loops much
earlier and not even just at like the
local build and test phase. We have
feedback loops throughout and even
sometimes in the middle of some of the
pipeline that we really want to leverage
in ways that weren't
as useful before. I won't say they
weren't possible, but like we just
didn't really focus there. So those are
prescriptive metrics. When we think
about space, space is a framework. It
doesn't tell you what metric to use. So
I'll say sometimes people get real
frustrated because I didn't tell them
what to measure, right? Uh but now I
think that's the power of it. We're
actually seeing that space applies
fairly well in these new emerging
contexts like AI because we still want
to look at so space is an acronym,
right? So we still want to look at
satisfaction. We still want to look at
performance. What's the outcome? Um we
still want to look at activity. Yes, you
know, in some ways lines of code and
number of PRs can be useful for
something, right? Uh or number of alerts
or number of things, activities or
accounts. C is communication and
collaboration. This is also super
important and useful because it's how
our systems communicate with each other
and also how our people do. You know,
what proportion of work is being
offloaded to a chatbot versus talking to
a senior engineer on the team. More
isn't always better, less isn't always
better. Depends. And then efficiency and
flow. Can people get in the flow? how
much time does it take to do things what
is the flow like through our system and
here I would probably add a couple
dimensions right so uh chatting with
some of the early authors to say you
know trust not to say trust wasn't
important before but now it is very very
front of mind right before you you know
build your code like if the if the
compile comes back you're fine and like
that's the way it is LLMs are
nondeterministic right now we can't just
put in a command and get something back
and accept it we really need to evaluate
it so you know are we seeing
hallucinations. What's the reliability?
Does it meet like the style that that we
would typically write? And if it doesn't
meet, is that fine?
So, that's my kind of kind of it depends
answer. Prescriptive, you got to make
sure you're using it fit for purpose,
right?
>> We're going to get to your current
thinking on the best way to do this
stuff. You have a book coming out that
explains the how to do this. Well, so
we're going to get to that. One thing I
wanted to highlight in our last chat
that we had, you uh you highlighted one
of the biggest issues we're going to ex
probably have with AI is trust.
Understanding and learning how much to
trust code that it generates and also
how much you said this two and a half
years ago that so much of the time is
now going to be spent reviewing code
versus writing code. That's exactly what
I'm hearing.
>> I think it'll be interesting to see how
that impacts the way we structure work
moving forward. You know, we were
talking about flow state and cognitive
load. Now that our attention has to
focus on things at certain times and and
it's broken up from how we used to do
it. Um I think there's some real
opportunity there to not just rethink
workflows but rethink how we structure
our days and how we structure our work.
>> Can you say more about that? Just what
is that what do you what are you
thinking will be happening? Where do you
think things go? What are you seeing
working? this uh so purely speculative
um but for example uh Gloria Mark has
done some really good work on attention
and deep work and Cubans can get about
four hours of good deep work a day and
like that's about it.
>> Yeah, I feel that.
>> And that that's like kind of the upper
limit for the most part and I'm sure
people are going to be like well I am
super human. I can do
>> what if you take 20 grams of creatine
>> right
micro dose.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah. So in the context of knowing we
have about four hours of good deep work
and I'm sure many of us have probably
hit this right where like we have good
periods like maybe it's morning maybe
it's afternoon for folks and then you
hit a time where you're like I'm going
to clean out my inbox because that is
all I can do right now right like I can
be functional but I'm not going to come
up with my best innovative problemolving
authoring codew writing work
a lot of times the way to do that and to
get into it is to have these
long chunks to get into flow and to get
that deep work, right? And it's usually,
this is I'm making I'm like hand waving,
right? Two hours minimum, right? Like an
hour can be tricky because it could take
time to get into that state. Okay. Well,
when we think about what it used to be
like back in the olden days, three years
ago, three and a half years ago, we
could block off four hours of time and
we could probably get two or three hours
of really good work done now because we
were just focused, right? There were no
interruptions, minimal interruptions.
Now the nature of writing code in
systems itself is interrupt driven or or
full of interruptions at least right
because you start something and then it
interjects and so how do we think about
that? Does that mean that a 4-hour work
block is still useful? I mean, probably.
But does that mean that now we can also
make a 45minute work block useful?
Because getting into the flow is
actually kind of handed off at least in
part to the machine or the machine can
help us get back into the flow by
reminding us of context and generating
diagrams of the system and you know all
the things. And so I think that's a
really really interesting area that's
just ripe for questions and opportunity
and and please folks do this research
and and come back to me cuz it might not
make my list but it's such a great
question.
>> That is so interesting. Essentially
everyone every engineer is turning into
an EM engineering manager coordinating
all of these junior AI engineers. And so
your point is even if you have like a
30-hour block, you can't get deep into
code, but you can unblock all these AI
engineers that are running off doing
tasks. Plus, your point is they give you
they remind you of just like here's
where you left off. Okay, you can just
jump into this code, maybe make some
tweaks.
>> Yeah.
>> So interesting. Let me zoom out a little
bit and before we get into your
framework for how to approach developer
experience, the latest thinking you've
got beyond just like obviously
engineering engineers doing more is
great. What's what's your best pitch for
why companies should really really
really focus on developer experience?
>> I hate to say return on investment but
like the business value is the
opportunity here is huge, right? In
general, we write software well for fun
and for hobbies, right? But we also have
software because it meets a business
need. It helps us with market share. It
helps us uh attract and retain
customers. It helps us do all of these
things. And you know, I think DevX is
important because it enables
all of that software creation. It
enables all of that problem solving.
enables the super rapid experimentation
with customers that before, you know,
you you'd need a while for a prototype
and maybe a little bit longer to
actually flight it through an AB test on
a production system.
I mean, you can do it in hours right
now.
>> Getting maybe the opposite end of the
spectrum, getting very tactical before
we get into the larger framework. What's
just like one thing that you think an
edge team, a product team can do this
week, next week to help their developer
experience maybe get more done?
Honestly, I think the best thing you can
do is go talk to people and listen. And
I love that, you know, the audience of
this podcast is primarily PMs because
they tend to be really good at this. And
I would say start with listening and not
with tools and automation. So many times
companies are like, well, I'm just going
to build this tool or going to I'm going
to build this thing.
Often you build a thing that you
yourself have had a challenge with or
that like is easy to do, easy to
automate. And if you just go talk to
people and ask the developers like think
of think of yesterday, what did you do
yesterday? Walk me through it. What were
the points that were just delightful?
What were the points that were really
difficult? Where did you get frustrated?
Where did you get slowed down? Where was
there friction? And if you go talk to a
handful of people, a lot of times you
can surface a handful of things that are
a relatively low lift and still have
impact. um or you can identify a process
that's
unnecessarily complex and slow.
>> So the listening tour here most is you
want to help your teams move faster, be
happier teams, your advice is just
before you do anything, just like go ask
them what is bothering you.
>> Go ask them. Yeah. And trust me, like
most developers are going to be more
than happy to tell you what's broken and
what's bad.
>> And I mean I will I'll say there was one
company that I had worked with. I
remember they they had a process that
was like really difficult and it was on
an old mainframe system and they were
going to have to like replplat the whole
thing and so they never went to work on
it or talk about it. Uh everyone hated
it cuz it was this huge delay. I mean
all they had to do was change a process.
Sometimes all you have to do is change a
process and they changed it so that
instead of I think it was someone had to
like print it out and walk it down three
or four flights and then get approval
and then someone else had to like walk
it back up and so it was just that
interim. They didn't replat anything.
They didn't redesign anything major.
They just had it send an email.
>> Let me push on that. And I'm curious
just what are the most common things
people do? Like if you were just
starting on, okay, we need to focus on
engineering experience. What do you find
are the most like I don't know two or
three most common improvements companies
need to make?
>> I will say, you know, I'll kind of echo
that process. there's almost always a
process that can be improved and that
can be approved improved without a lot
of engineering lift or a lot of
engineering headcount, right? Uh most
large companies in particular have
something that is several several steps.
It's the way it is because it's the way
it is, but that's no longer the way it
is, right? Um and even small companies
sometimes it's just a little too yolo
and you don't know what it is and you're
kind of chasing everyone around. So if
you can create a very lightweight
process, that can also be helpful. that
can be one of the best places to start
especially if you have
limited uh exposure to the whole rest of
the or right sometimes just a team
process can help
um I will say from a business leader
standpoint a lot of what you can do is
provide structure and support for this
organizational change communicate what
you're doing communicate what the
priorities are communicate why this is
important celebrate wins because
if folks try to do this just like a
oneoff side fully isolated project. It's
really challenging to get some good
momentum and get people to care and to
get them stay involved, right? Because
it feels like
just another interim internal project
that isn't going to matter or that isn't
going to get celebrated, but it has
these huge uh upside uh potential
returns for the business.
>> It's interesting what I'm hearing here
is nothing about tools or technologies.
It's not like move to this cloud. It's
not like install this new deployment
system. It's processes and people and
organ morale.
>> Yeah. Now, there will be technical
pieces that are very important, right?
Uh especially now with AI, right? We're
we're rethinking how build and test
systems work. We're rethinking feedback
to users so that it's very very
customized in terms of what is shared
and when it is shared. There are a lot
of technical pieces that are involved.
But that's not the only thing, right?
It's necessary but not sufficient. And
that doesn't have to be the place that
you start.
>> I'm going to ask you, I have a hard
question I want to ask you that I
thought of as you were talking. I feel
like this is the question that most
founders and heads think about. And the
question is just like, how do I know if
my edge team is moving fast enough, if
they can move faster, if they're just
not performing as well as they can? What
are just maybe smells, signs that tell
you, yeah, my team should be moving
faster versus like this is just the way
it works. This is as fast as they can
move.
>> Most teams can move faster, right? So,
and also uh given what we know about
cognitive load, not all speed gains are
necessarily good, right? Um or
the upside is going to be kind of
limited, right? Once you hit kind of a
certain point, most people are not even
near that point. Uh, I don't know of a
single team, frankly. But how do you
know? Uh, you know, if
you're always hearing about
bills breaking, flaky tests, uh, overly
long
processes, if you have to request a new
system or if you need to provision a new
environment or if it's really really
hard to switch tasks or switch projects,
right? Right? So if someone has an
opportunity to go work in another part
of an org and they don't for reasons
that are unclear and like not political
and anyone says anything about the
system,
that's usually a pretty good smell uh
that there's friction somewhere because
once you finally figure out your system
and you're able to get work done, you
don't the switching costs can often be
really really high to go anywhere else.
And so sometimes people will do that but
you know I've worked with companies
where switching orgs within the company
uh you had to basically pay the same tax
as a new hire because the systems were
so different and they were so full of
friction and it was so difficult to do
so many things.
>> I love the first part of your answer
especially which is you can always move
faster. I think every founder is going
to love hearing that.
Uh to your point that there's
diminishing returns over time.
>> Yeah. and and you don't know about the
quality, right? So, like I think that's
the other side is that you can always
move faster, but faster for what? Are we
making the right business decisions? And
I think, you know, that's especially
where PMs come in. You could we can ship
trash faster every single day. We need
strategy and really smart decisions to
know what to ship, what to experiment uh
with, what what features we want to do
in what order, and what roll out, right?
The strategy is the core piece. And then
think about speeding that up. If we
don't have the other pieces in place, I
mean, garbage in, garbage out.
>> I want to follow that thread, but before
I do that, just to mirror back what you
shared. So, signs that your team,
there's a lot of low hanging fruit to
improve this the productivity of your
team is builds are always breaking.
There's flaky tests that are constantly
incorrect, false positives. It's hard to
context switch between different
projects. The system, you just hear
people talking about the system is just
really hard to work with. Is that
roughly right?
>> Yep.
>> Cool. Okay. So going back to the point
you just made, there's a sense that AI
is making teams so much faster because
it's writing all this code for them.
You're going to have all these
asynchronous agents, engineers working
for you. Feels like a core part of your
message is that's just a one part of
engineering work. There's so much more
including figuring out what to build
alignment internally. Maybe just speak
to just like there is a lot of
opportunity to improve engineering
performance, productivity, but there's
so many other elements that are not
improved through AI.
>> Yes. uh or or could be in the future,
right? Like I think there are a lot of
ways that we can pull in AI tools to
help us refine our strategy, refine our
message, think about the experimentation
methods or you know uh targets of
experimentation or think about our total
addressable market, right? But we need
to have that
strategy and plan fairly well aligned,
right? or at least have like two or
three alternatives that you want to test
because now the engineering can go or at
least the prototyping especially can go
much much faster like right we can throw
out prototypes uh we can run AB tests
and experiments that are customerf
facing right assuming that you know we
have the infrastructure in place which
allows us to learn and progress much
faster before right like it it some
places it used to take you know months
to get something through production to
do AB testing and get feedback we can do
this in a day or two definitely under a
week,
but we want to make sure that we're
building and testing the right things.
Are we partnering with the right? Do we
have the data that we need? Right? And I
will say AI can actually be a pretty
good partner there if you keep if you
have like a good conversation with it
and then also check with your experts,
right? What type of data should I be
looking at? What type of instrumentation
do I need? What type of analysis can I
do? Uh because then you can also go to
your data science team and say like I'm
planning on doing this. I'd like to
because let's not just yell AB tests,
right? Because that can be it. It's a
shame to do a large test and end up
disrupting users or disrupting customers
or breaking privacy or security uh
protocols and also end up with data
that's unusable, right? Because you just
can't get the signal that you're looking
for. But now I'm also seeing people kind
of accelerate that into a few days
versus a few weeks. and so they can kind
of start those key stakeholder
discussions from
uh much more informed kind of filled out
space.
>> Today's episode is brought to you by
KOD. I personally use KOD every single
day to manage my podcast and also to
manage my community. It's where I put
the questions that I plan to ask every
guest that's coming on the podcast. It's
where I put my community resources. It's
how I manage my workflows. Here's how
KOD can help you. Imagine starting a
project at work and your vision is
clear. You know exactly who's doing what
and where to find the data that you need
to do your part. In fact, you don't have
to waste time searching for anything
because everything your team needs from
project trackers and OKRs to documents
and spreadsheets lives in one tab all in
KOD. With KOD's collaborative all-in-one
workspace, you get the flexibility of
docs, the structure of spreadsheets, the
power of applications, and the
intelligence of AI all in one easy to
organize tab. Like I mentioned earlier,
I use Kota every single day. And more
than 50,000 teams trust KOD to keep them
more aligned and focused. If you're a
startup team looking to increase
alignment and agility, KOD can help you
move from planning to execution in
record time. To try it for yourself, go
to kod.io/lenny
today and get 6 months free of the team
plan for startups. That's cooda.io/lenny
to get started for free and get 6 months
of the team plan. kod.io/lenny.
I love that you work with a bunch of
different companies and a bunch of
different types of businesses. I think a
very few people get to see inside a lot
of different places. What kind of gains
are you just seeing in terms of
increased productivity with AI? Like how
real like how big of a gain have you
seen?
>> I'd say it's real. And I would also say
we don't have great measures for it yet.
We're still trying to figure out what to
measure and what that looks like. Uh one
of the best is going to be velocity
right all the way through the system.
How quickly can you get uh a feature or
a product or something through the
system so that you can then experiment
and test right either from like idea to
like final end or even kind of a a
feature and a piece through the system
so we can test. That's really good. Now
that's also hard to tie back directly to
like a particular AI tool in the hands
of a particular developer. Um, but there
are some other things that that we can
look at and we can see. Um, and and that
I've seen is again this kind of rapid
prototyping. Um,
I hate lines of code, but I'm going to
use lines of code. Um,
we do see I I know I worked with uh some
folks who who had kind of a whole set of
companies they were looking at and they
found that uh
AI was generating like significantly
more code for the people who were using
it regularly. But then they also found
that for folks who were like you know
regular users of AI coding environments
AI idees
the the tool kind of gave them more code
and then the engineers themselves
the increase was double what the uh
coding agent had given them and so one
I'd say probably it's kind of a
secondary or knockon or or just a smell
right is it can unblock you it can speed
up the work that you would already do
right I know sometimes when I work. It's
like the first few minutes it's hard for
me to start, but once I get started, I'm
there. And so they're really good at
unblocking and unlocking that.
>> Something I've seen people on Twitter
sharing is how good uh OpenAI Codeex
especially is at finding really gnarly
bugs. And I think it was Karpathy that
shared he was like so stuck on a bug and
no AI tool could figure it out and then
the latest version of Codex spent like
an hour or something looking into it and
found it for him.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm hearing incredible things
like that. Right. Well, and even also,
you know, writing unit tests and
spinning up unit tests and
>> uh creating documentation and cleaning
up documentation because
>> I know now people are like, "Oh, well,
we have agents. I don't need to
>> I don't need to read the docs because
there's the code there." Turns out, uh,
agents rely on good data, right? Because
it's it's all about how they've been
trained or how they've been grounded.
Um, and better data gives you better
outcomes. And some of that data includes
documentation and comments. And the
better documentation, the better
comments you have, the better
performance you're going to get out of
your AI tools.
>> And AI can help you write that
documentation. I've been working with
Devon a little bit and it's really good
at that stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Let's talk about this framework,
this book. So you're publishing a book
called Frictionless, which sounds like a
dream. How do you create a a dev team
that's frictionless? This is called
frictionless seven steps to remove
barriers along value and outpace your
competition in the age of AI. There's a
sevenst step process to this. Walk us
through this. Maybe give us just context
on this book. What who is meant for what
problem it solves and then the seven
steps.
>> So I will say I uh also wrote this with
Abby Nota who has just uh of DX. He has
incredible experience in the space,
right? He's worked with hundreds of
companies. And so it was kind of nice
bouncing ideas off of him. And you know,
also thanks to all of the uh engineering
leads and devs leads and CTO's and
engineers that we talked to to kind of
make sure that we our smells were right.
Right. And so who is this before?
>> Let me actually take a let me take a
tangent on Obby and DX since you
mentioned him. Uh this is super
interesting and I think it connects so
directly with this conversation. So,
Abby started this company called DX,
which is such a great name for a company
around developer experience. They just
sold the company for a billion dollars
to Atlassian. Uh, it's a very high
multiple on their AR. It to me shows
exactly why this conversation is so
valuable, just how much value companies
are putting into improving developer
experience. At Lastian would spend a
billion dollars on this. It's like a
early stageish startup that was doing
really well and people loved it, but it
was like early stageish. a billion
dollars. Uh, and now and the idea is
they have all these companies working
using Jara and all their products. Uh,
they're all trying to figure out how do
we measure productivity. Uh, it's worth
a lot of money to them. So, and I know
you were an early adviser to them, too.
So,
>> yeah.
>> It just shows us how important this is.
>> Yeah. Well, and I think it also shows us
um how much value you can get out of
this, right? Like there's so much low
hanging fruit. There's so much unlocked
potential and it's hard to know where to
start. A lot of times even in I've been
at large companies that have a lot of
expertise and a lot of really really
smart people. But if you haven't kind of
been in this space and thinking about it
this way,
it's hard to know where to start or it's
easy to make simple mistakes up front
that mean like you kind of need to start
over later. Um so I guess which kind of
also brings us back to you know who is
this book for? It's for anyone that
cares about DevX, right? So definitely
technology leaders um anyone who's
trying to kick off a DevX program or is
working on a DevX Devx improvement
program um I think is particular
particularly relevant for PMs because if
you're PMing something that involves
software and building and creating
software improving Devex will only help
your team and also uh you have
key skills and insights and instincts
that are so important important to DevX
that many times I will say I've seen
engineering teams just miss.
>> Okay. What's the framework? What are the
steps? Where do people start?
>> Uh so the book goes through uh sevenstep
process and then also kind of provides
some some
key kind of uh principles at the end.
Step one is to start the journey, right?
So assuming you're kicking off, you can
start the journey. And this involves
what we have already talked about,
right?
Go talk to people, have a listening
tour, synthesize what you learn, uh
visualize the workflow and tools, right?
Like get a handle on kind of what the
current state is. Uh step two is to get
a quick win, right? So start small, get
a quick win. Uh pick the right projects,
share out what you've done. Um step
three is using data to optimize the
work, right? So kind of establish some
of your data foundation, find the data
that's there, start collecting new data.
um use some surveys for some really fast
insights and we include uh example
surveys. Uh step four then is to decide
strategy and priority. Once you have
some data, then you need to know of all
the things that are potentially broken
and you've already gotten your quick win
of all the things that are left. What
should I do next? And so we walk through
some evaluation frameworks there. Step
five is to sell your strategy. Once
you've decided, now you have to kind of
convince everyone else, right? So now
you want to get feedback. you want to
share why this is the right strategy
right now. Uh step six is to drive
change at your scale. So here we address
folks that have local scope of control,
right? If you're starting on just a dev
team, you want to do it yourself kind of
grassroots effort. Uh or global scope of
control, right? If you're, you know, the
the VP of developer experience or
something like there are some things
that you can leverage for a top down. Um
and then how do you drive change when
you're kind of somewhere in the middle
because you can leverage both both types
of strategies. Uh and then step seven is
to evaluate your progress and show value
and then kind of uh loop back around.
And I will say that we wrote this so
that you could kind of jump into any
step where wherever you are right now,
right? Like if you're kicking off a
team, you'll or an initiative, you'll
probably want to start at step one. You
should definitely start at step one. If
you're joining an existing initiative,
you could jump into
uh picking the priority or uh
implementing the changes.
So those are so those are seven steps.
Um there are a few practices that we
also recommend. So thinking about
resourcing it, uh change management, uh
making technology sustainable and then
also bringing a PM lens to this, right?
How can we think about developer
experience as a product and how do we
think about the metrics that we have as
a product?
>> Awesome. Okay, I have questions. Point
people to the book real quick. What
what's the URL? How do they get it? When
does it come out?
>> Yeah, developerexperiencebook.com.
So, right now you can sign up for the
mailing list. We'll we'll let you know
when it's out on pre-order and we'll
also be sharing pieces of the workbook.
So, we've got almost a 100page workbook
that goes along with the book. Um, and
then it should be out by end of year.
Okay. So, one piece of this is just this
term developer experience feels very
intentional in that it's not developer
productivity, developer uh work, it's
how do we make developer experiences
better at our company which includes
they get more done but also they're
happier things like that. So, I think
that's an important element of the rate.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolutely. Because
>> again, it's not just about productivity,
right? We talked about this from from
kind of the frame and the lens of we
need to be building the right thing and
you want to be productive but you also
want to be thinking about and this is
what engineers are also just really
incredibly good at. give them a problem
and don't tell them how to solve it and
then they can solve it better right they
have uh the freedom they have the
innovation they have the creativity so
that they can solve this problem if it's
only about productivity then it's just
like lines of code or number of PRs or
whatever right but we really want to
talk about value and how do we unlock
value and how do we get value faster and
that involves yes making them more
productive and removing friction because
then they have the flow and the
cognitive load and the things that we
kind of talked about
>> awesome Okay. And then say someone wants
to start this team. What does it usually
look like at Airbnb? I remember this
team forming and it was just like an
engineer or two getting it started and
taking charge. What do you recommend as
the the pilot team and then what does it
look like as it grows?
>> So there are there are a few ways to do
this, right? So, if you're doing it
yourself,
you could do it with a couple engineers,
uh, maybe a a PM or a or a PGM or a TPM,
um, to kind of help communicate because
really comms plans are just so important
here. Uh, on a small on a small scale,
right? What we want to do is look for
those quick wins. Look for things that
you can do at small scale. Are there,
you know, some folks call them things
like paper cuts. Are there small things
that you can do to help people see the
value and feel the benefit themselves,
right? How can a developer's work get
better? How can their day-to-day work
get better? Kind of build momentum from
there. If you're working from a top-
down structure and you have the remit,
you still want uh some some quick wins,
but those quick wins can look a little
more global in scale because you have
the the infrastructure or the backing to
make, you know, different types of
changes that aren't only local. So, you
know, an example of a small local change
could be just cleaning up your tests in
your test suites, right? Any team could
do that. Any team could do that. uh more
more global scale might be changing uh
organizationwide process that is just
overly cumbersome or throwing some
resourcing into you know cleaning up the
provisioning environment.
>> What kind of impact have you seen from
teams like this forming on the
engineering teams at their companies? I
I'll say I've seen a huge impact right
uh for for smaller companies hundreds of
thousands of dollars for large companies
in the billions because well also we
need to learn how to communicate that
right like what does the math look like
are we many times we can look at saving
time we can look at saving costs um we
can look at a lot of different things we
could look at speed to value as speed to
market we can look at risk reduction um
but the gains really are there I I will
mention that it tends to follow
something like J curve All right. So,
like you'll have a couple quick wins and
it'll look like a big big win and then
you'll hit a kind of a little divot
where suddenly the really obvious
projects the lowhanging fruit are
handled. So now we need to do a little
bit of work, right? We we might need to
build out a little bit more
infrastructure. We might need to build
out a little more telemetry so that we
can capture the things we want to
capture. And then once we get that done,
uh then we start to see those benefits
really compound.
>> So going back to that measurement
number, what do you recommend? How do
people find these numbers? Because I
think that's so much of the power of
this is like we saved a million dollars
doing this. What do you look at to to
figure that out?
>> You know, I think there are a few
different things to keep in mind, right?
Who who is our key audience? And we
usually have a few key audiences, right?
We really want to be able to speak to
developers because they're the ones that
are going to be using the systems.
They'll be partnering with you on either
building them or at least providing
feedback about what you're doing. Um and
so for them we often want to frame this
in terms of things they care about. So
time savings right if something gets
faster they can save time they can you
know they don't spend time doing setup
when they don't need to anymore related
to that is reduced toil right so
compliance and security are super
important also many times it requires
several several manual steps that I
don't say they're not value ad they are
not value ad from an individual human
perspective right if we can automate as
much as possible that's great
um and you know improve focus
So that's from the developer side of
view. Leadership often cares about they
care about those things, right? But they
often care more about other things. So
we could talk about uh usually costs and
dollars, right? So can we accelerate
revenue? What is our uh time to value
look like? Uh what does our velocity?
How quickly can we get feedback from
customers? Um, and for folks and
organizations that are in really
competitive environments, that can be
really compelling because it's all about
speed. We can talk about saving money,
right? So, here we can look at maybe
quantifying savings. So, you know, one
example is uh test and build. If we can
clean up a test and build suite to a
developer, they really want to hear
about uh time saved and
more reliable systems, right? there's
less toil because they don't have to
keep rerunning tests or kind of go clean
up test suites. From the business
perspective, cleaning up a test in a
build suite can be
uh cloud cost savings because all of
those tests are running somewhere on a
cloud and if they always fail or they're
if it's just kind of a waste of spend
that can be useful, right? Uh recovering
some capacity, right? Uh we can always
talk about time and productivity gains,
right? So how much uh
equivalent developer time are we losing
on things that are not necessarily value
ad right and then sometimes we can
correlate to business outcomes and
correlate is usually the best we can we
can do here but there can be some pretty
compelling correlations in terms of
speeding up time to value and increase
market share for example
>> so let me pull that thread and come back
to this what I think is the biggest
question people have right now with AI
and productivity which and I don't I
don't think anyone No one has the answer
yet, but I'm curious to get your take of
just what should people do today? What's
the best approach to understanding what
impact AI tools are having on their
productivity because they're spending
all this money on there like I don't
know what are we getting out of this and
I guess things are moving faster but I
don't know. So if someone had to just
like okay here's what I should probably
try to do. What would be your best
advice here for measuring the impact of
AI tools on productivity?
>> I would say it depends. Um, and in part
it depends on what your
leadership chain really cares about,
right? Like we we're usually pretty good
at like figuring out what matters to
developers and we could communicate that
to them. But if we're trying to just
identify two or three data points to
really kind of focus on because when
we're first starting with data,
sometimes it can be challenging.
What do they care about? Think about the
messaging you've been hearing. Have they
been talking about market share, right?
Losing market share or or
competitiveness in the marketplace. If
that's it, focus on speed. Think about
ways that you can capture metrics for
speed for from like feature to
production or feature to customer or
feature to experiment and what that
feedback loop looks like. If they're
talking about uh
profit margin all the time, right now we
always talk about money, right? because
this is business. But if that seems to
be an overarching narrative, look for
ways that you can save money and then
translate that into
uh recovered and recouped uh headcount
cost, right? Or sometimes you'll kind of
like reinvent, change a process and then
you no longer need as many vendors,
right? So so reductions in vendor spend
can also help there. Um and I I say also
it depends because sometimes something
will they'll say something, right? like
leadership will say something and it it
kind of comes up as a theme. If you can
solve a problem that they have or it's
like something that they're focused on,
if you can slightly reframe it even,
right? Like if they're calling
everything developer productivity, go
ahead and call it productivity. If
they're calling it velocity and velocity
is what matters to them, think about how
to frame this in terms of velocity. If
they're talking about transformation or
disruption, right? How does this help
with the disruption? Because then it
will resonate with them. We don't want
to make them work to understand what it
is that
we're doing and the value that we
provide.
>> That is such good advice. So just to
reflect back the advice here is if your
company's trying to figure out what sort
of impact our AI tools having on our
company first is just like what what
does the company care about most? What
do leaders care about most? Could be
market share, could be profit margin,
could be velocity. We need higher
velocity or we need to transform
transformation. So your advice there is
like figure that out based on words and
phrases you're hearing then figure out
ways to measure that ways to measure
market share growing uh profit margin
increasing. So it could be uh I love
these examples like time from feature
idea to production or to experiment. So
maybe start tracking that. If it's
margin it's like money saved by fewer
tests failing or some vendor you don't
have to pay for things like that. And
then velocity. Velocity. I imagine
that's where things like Dora come in of
just like speed of engineering shipping
or what would you think about there for
velocity?
>> I would say it's actually, you know, one
of those uh I would pick as as broad a
swamp as you can. So if you can go from
idea to customer or idea to experiment,
how long does that take? How long does
it typically take and how long can it
take and and does it take now with uh
improved use of AI tooling and reduction
in friction? Right? And that's where I
will say we talk about this a little bit
in the book. Uh you know how do we deal
with attribution challenges? So like
what was responsible for this? Was it
the DevX or was it the AI? Um go ahead
and disclose that, right? Say yes, we
rolled out AI tools. We also had this
effort in DevX. They partnered very
closely together. Both of them probably
contributed to this, right? Like if we
had AI tools without the DevX
improvements, we probably would have had
some improvements but not nearly as
much, right? If people were starting to
do this today, say they're just like, I
want to start measuring developer
experience. Are there like a two or
three metrics everybody basically needs
that you should just start measuring
ASAP?
>> If you're just starting today and if you
have nothing at all, uh talk to people
obviously after that. I would do surveys
uh because surveys can give you a nice
kind of overall view of the landscape
quickly so that you know where the the
big kind of challenges are. And I say
that because if if you're just starting,
you you might not have instrumentation
through your system, all the metrics.
And if you do already, it might not be
what you think you want, right? Metrics
that were designed without purpose,
questionable metrics that were designed
for another purpose, they might work for
what you want, but they might not. So,
we can't just assume we have them. So,
that's one reason I like surveys. And uh
we included an example in the book. You
can just ask a few questions, right? How
satisfied are you? uh what are the
biggest barriers to your productivity or
what are the biggest challenges to
getting work done? Um and let them pick
you know either from a set of tools or
maybe like a set of uh processes and
then say and like let them pick three
just three of those three how often does
this affect you? Right? Is this hourly?
Is this daily? Is this weekly? Is this
quarterly? Right? Because sometimes it
hits you every single day and you're
just mad about it. Sometimes it only
hits you once a quarter because it's end
of quarter, but it's so ownorous, right?
And then kind of open text, right? Like,
is there anything else we should know?
um that that can give you incredible
signal because by making folks
prioritize the top three things if you
let them pick everything like it makes
the data super super messy but three
things and how often you can just come
up with a score or a weighted score if
you want and then go kind of dig into
where should that data where should that
data be what data do we need but also
then you've got at least some kind of
baseline baseline right it'll be a
subjective baseline but now you'll know
what the biggest challenges are.
>> I love how all this just comes back to
starting by talking to people and asking
them these things which is very similar
to product management and just building
great products is have you talk to your
customers and everyone thinks they're
doing this but most people are not doing
this enough.
>> Yeah. And I will say like one thing
that's challenging when you're start
when you think about getting data right
so interviews are data and that's
important. Surveys are a little more
quantified, right? Because we can we can
turn into counts. But that's where we
also want to be careful, right? A lot of
folks go to write a survey question and
they'll say something like, "Were the
build and test system slow or
complicated in the last week?" You're
asking four different questions there.
If someone answers yes, was it the
build? Was it the test? Was it slow? Or
was it like flaky or complicated or
something, right? So, it can be really
difficult to
untangle what the signal is you're
actually getting there. And so, it is
worth time uh chatting with with someone
who's familiar with survey design. Um
having a conversation with Claude or
Gemini or Chad GPT around uh here are
the survey questions or can you propose
them? And then make sure you take a
couple rounds. Is this a good survey
question? what s what questions can I
answer
from the data that I get? What problems
could I solve? If you can't answer a
question with data, don't get it.
>> And you have example surveys in your
book for folks that want to just copy
and paste and not have to think about
this.
>> Example surveys. Um, a lot of example
questions. We even recommend like what
the format like how what the flow should
look like, how long it should be, how
long it should not be. One thing that I
was reading uh is that you don't love
happiness surveys specifically asking
engineers how happy they are. Is that
true? If so, why is that?
>> I don't. Now I will I will say I I don't
love a happiness survey
because
there are too many things that
contribute to happiness. Happiness is a
lot, right? So happiness is work.
Happiness is family. Happiness is
hobbies. Happiness is weekends.
Happiness there are so many things that
contribute to happiness. Now, that
doesn't mean I don't care about
happiness. I think happiness surveys are
not particularly useful here. What can
be helpful is satisfaction. And people
are like, "It's the same thing." It's
not because you can ask, "Are you
satisfied with this tool?" Right? And
then ask some follow-up questions.
Now, those two are related because the
more satisfied you are with your job and
your tools and the work and your team,
it contributes to happiness. And I used
to joke, remember the old commercials
like Happy Cows make Happy Cheese? out
of California. That was the best. Um,
>> happy devs make happy code. They they
write better programs. They do better
work. Um, they're they're better team
members and collaborators.
But but capturing and trying to directly
influence happiness, like that's that's
that's not what we're here for, right?
And it's just it's too challenging. It's
too all-encompassing. Satisfaction can
give us some signal
>> in a totally different direction. Uh in
terms of just tools you see people
using. Are there any that just like oh
yeah this one's really commonly uh great
for people? This is just like a tool
people are finding a lot of success
with. Like there's the common ones.
Copilot cursor. Uh I don't know. Is
there anything that stands out that you
you want to share? Just like hey you
should check this tool out. People seem
to love it.
>> I I think the use right co-pilot cursor
Gemini
>> claw code.
>> Yep. Clock code. I love claw code.
I bet I have a whole post coming on ways
to use cloud code for non-engineering
use cases. It's so nice.
>> It's so interesting. For example,
>> cloud code uh find ways to clean up
storage on my laptop
>> and it just tells you here's a bunch of
files. It's just like Chad GPT running
on your computer and it could do all
kinds of crazy stuff on your computer
for you like a little mini mini god.
>> Well, I'm going to do that now. This is
great.
>> It's so good. It's Yeah, that's why I'm
writing this. I had a Dan Shipper on the
podcast and he said clock code is the
most underrated AI tool out there
because people don't realize what it's
capable of. It's not just for coding and
that's trying to explore more and more.
Okay. Is there anything else that you
think would be valuable for people to
hear for to help people improve their
developer experience, help them adapt to
this new world of AI uh and engineering
that we haven't covered. I think
something that's important to think
about in general is to bring a product
mindset to any type of DevX improvements
that are happening and also the metrics
that we kind of collect and capture. And
by that I mean we want to identify a
problem, right? Make sure we're solving
a problem for a set of users. We want to
think about creating MVPs and
experiments and get fast feedback. You
know, some do some like rapid iteration.
We want to have a strategy. We want to
know who our addressable market is. We
want to know what success is. We want to
basically have a go to market function,
right? We we need to have comms. We need
to get continuous feedback from our
customers. We want to keep improving. Um
and at some point we want to think
about, you know, suns setting something,
right? Is it in maintenance mode?
sunsetting. And I think that's important
in general, but I think it's extra
important now because when we have AI
tools, we're using AI tools, we're
embedding AI into our products,
things are changing so rapidly that it
it can be really important to take like
half a beat and say, "Okay, what's the
problem I'm trying to solve right here?
Is this metric that we've had for the
last 10 years still important, or should
this be sunset?" Because it's it's not
really important anymore. It's not
driving the types of decisions and
actions that I need. Before we get to
our exciting lightning round, I want to
take us to AI corner, which is a
recurring segment on this podcast. Is
there some way that you've found a use
for an AI tool in your life, in your
work that you think might be fun to
share, that you think might be useful to
other people?
>> So, I uh have been kind of working on
some home design and like like
redecorating rooms and stuff. Um, I'm
working with a designer because I know
what I like, but I don't know how to get
there. I'm not good at this. But I've
really been loving Chad GPT and Gemini
especially to render pictures for me,
right? So I can give it the floor plan.
I can give it one shot of the room
that's like definitely not what it's
supposed to look like and then I can
give it a pictures of a couple different
things and then I can just tell it
change the walls or change the furniture
layout or change something. And it helps
me and it's relatively quick. Um it
helps me kind of visualize the things
again. I know what I like but I don't
know how to get there. So, I know if I
like it or not, which is probably a very
random use, but it's fun for now.
>> My wife does exactly the same thing.
She's sending me constantly, here's what
this rug will look like in her living
room. Here's this water feature. Uh,
it's so good and it keeps getting
better. It's just like, that's exactly
our house with this new rug.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, and all you do is just upload these
two photos and just like, how would this
look in that room?
>> I've been impressed a couple times. I
mean, definitely the machines are
listening to us. um it's given me a
mockup of of a room or something and
then it throws in a dog bed because I
have I have dogs and I'm like I did not
tell you to do that but yeah that's
probably the Kylin color and style of a
dog bed that I should have in this room.
>> Have Speaking of that, have you tried
this use case? Ask JJBT uh generate an
image of what you think my house looks
like based on everything you know about
me.
>> I have it
>> because it is memory. It remembers
everything you've talked about and it's
hilarious. You got to do it. Okay,
that's that's on my to-do list.
>> There we go. Uh, a bonus use case,
Nicole. With that, we've reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. You ready?
>> Awesome. Let's go.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Outlive by uh Peter Aia is fantastic.
Another one that's maybe related. I hurt
my back. Um, so like it's not great.
Back mechanic by Stuart McIll is
incredible. So, shout out to anyone who
has uh hurt lower back. Um, it's for a
lay person to read through and like
figure out how to fix lower back
problems. It's kind of a random one. I
will say I love how big things get done.
I can't pronounce the name. I think
one's they're Scandinavian. One is um
but it's it kind of dissects really
large projects through recentish history
and where they failed and why. And I
think it's really interesting for us to
think about especially now in this AI
moment where basically all of our at
least software systems are going to be
changing. So how do we think about
approaching what is essentially going to
be a very large project. Um and then
sorry I'm going to throw in a bonus one.
The Undoing Project by Michael Lewis. Uh
Matt Velos recommended it to me and it's
so good.
>> Yes. Uh I
>> gasped at the last sentence. Oh, the
book. It was Yeah, it was not.
>> I read that and I I do not remember that
last sentence. So, man. Okay, cool. Uh,
next question. Do you have a favorite
movie or TV show you recently watched
and enjoyed?
>> I will say I watched Love is Blind if I
got to like shut down at the end of the
day. Love is Blind is fun.
>> There's a new season out.
>> Yeah,
>> very excited. Um, and Shrinking.
Shrinking. Have you seen Shrinking?
>> No, I I think I started the therapists
and Yeah, I gave it a shot.
Okay. Okay. Sweet. Is there a product
you've recently discovered that you
really love? Could be an app, could be
some kitchen gadget, some clothing.
>> Uh, yeah. The Ninja Creamy is.
>> Did you say this last time?
>> I don't know. I mean,
>> somebody said this and I still remember
it. It's like a
>> You make ice cream and stuff with it,
right?
>> Yeah. You can basically freeze a protein
shake and then it turns it into ice
cream.
>> Oh man.
>> Which is delicious. Um.
>> Oh. Uhhuh.
>> Another one is a Jura coffee maker. I'd
love good coffee and I'm not great at
making it. So, I can just push the
button and it'll give me anything I
want, including like lattes,
cappuccinos, or anything. So, that's
kind of fun.
>> Sweet. Okay. Uh, do you have
>> sugar and caffeine? I just need a power
through the day.
>> There's the there's the engineering
productivity 101.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, man. Okay, two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
often find useful in work or life and
come back to in various ways?
>> Yeah, I think one that's come up a
couple times. It's not like a verbatim
thing. It's I think it's more the vibe,
but like hindsight is 2020, but it's
also really dumb, right? I think if we
made the best decision we could at the
time with the information that we had
available, like then it is what it is,
right? If if you make a bad decision
because you made a bad decision and you
you knew better and you had the
information, not great. But
I I don't think we give ourselves or
other people enough grace because we
always end up finding more information
out later.
>> Here here final question. I was going to
ask you something else, but uh as we
were preparing for this, you share that
you have a new role at Google. Maybe
just talk about that. What you're up to
there, why you joined Google, anything
folks should know.
>> Sure. So I am senior director of
developer intelligence in core
developer. So, it's super exciting and
super fun because of all of these things
we've been talking about, right? It's
like focused on Google and all their
properties and and their kind of
underlying infrastructure. How can we
improve developer experience, developer
productivity, velocity, all of these
things we've been talking about? And
because I'm kind of the numbers person,
right? How do we want to think about
measuring it? How does measurement
change? How do feedback loops change?
How can we improve the experience
throughout and then kind of drive that
change through an organization in ways
that are meaningful and impactful and
faster than they've been before?
>> Nice job, Google getting Nicole. What a
win. I need to get some more Google
stock ASAP. Okay, two follow questions.
Where can folks find you online if they
want to and find your book online if
they want to dig deeper and how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> So online you can find the book at
developerexperiencebook.com.
Um, I'm at af.com
and LinkedIn occasionally. Sometimes
it's a mess. I I try to wade wave
through all of the uh noise I get there.
Um, to be useful, um, sign up for the
book and the workbooks. The workbooks
are free. I'd love to get, you know, any
kind of feedback on what works, what
doesn't. Uh, I always love hearing those
kind of stories.
>> Nicole, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thanks for having me, Lenny.
>> My pleasure. Thanks again. Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.